.TH "apt-transport-private" "8" "14 December 2022" "apt-transport-private" "APT Encrypted Repositories"

.SH NAME
.B apt-transport-private
- fetch encrypted DEB packages.


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B apt-transport-private
is a package which contains an APT method helper allowing to fetch encrypted
APT packages stored on a HTTP or FTP server.


.SH CONFIGURATION
The information about remote repositories is stored in the
.I /etc/apt/private.conf
file. See
.BR private.conf (5)
for more information.

To enable fetching from an encrypted repository, you need:

.B Prepare a repository
.RS 4
Create an APT repository using any tool you like
.RB ( reprepro (1),
.BR apt-ftparchive (1),
etc.). Then, the directory that contains the generated repository must be
encrypted using
.BR apt-private-prepare (1).
Because the encoder encodes the whole repository, it should be as small as
possible but there is no hard limit to the size.
.RE

.B Upload the repository
.RS 4
Then you can upload the encrypted files to a server. This method supports
fetching from
.I HTTP
and
.I FTP
servers (with SSL). Since
.BR libcurl (3) 
is used for networking, it should be possible to use any other protocol
supported by the library, but this was not tested and there is no official
support for it.
.RE

.B Configure APT
.RS 4
The final step is configuration. Put information about the remote server and
the encryption key that can be used for decryption of the packages into
.I /etc/apt/private.conf
and add a record into the
.I /etc/apt/sources.list
file in the same way like in the case of any other protocol (see
.BR sources.list (5)
for details):
.RS 4

deb private://myserver/ stable main

.RE
If the configuration was successful, you can synchronise the package indexes
from the repositories and install packages from them in the same way you would
do from any other repository.
.RE


.SH LICENSE AND WARRANTY
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the
Free Software Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apt-private-prepare (1),
.BR private.conf (5),
.BR sources.list (5).
