.TH "apt-private-prepare" "1" "20 October 2022" "apt-transport-private" "APT Encrypted Repositories"

.SH NAME
.B apt-private-prepare
- encoder of repositories for
.BR apt-transport-private (8).


.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY apt-private-prepare
.RB [ -o
.IR ORIGIN ]
.RB [ -s
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ -d
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ -c
.IR FILE ]
.OP -h
.OP -v
.YS


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B apt-private-prepare
is a tool that can be used to prepare an encrypted APT repository that can be
made accessible using the
.BR apt-transport-private (8)
package.


.SH OPTIONS
.B \-o
.I ORIGIN
.RS 4
Name of the repository. By this name, the repository is identified in both
configuration files, namely in
.I /etc/apt/private.conf
and
.IR /etc/apt/sources.list .
.RE

.B \-s
.I DIR
.RS 4
Source directory containing the unencrypted APT repository.
.RE

.B \-d
.I DIR
.RS 4
Destination directory into which the repository should be encrypted.
.RE

.B \-c
.I FILE
.RS 4
Path to the configuration file. This parameter is optional. If it is not
specified, the default value
.RI ' /etc/apt/private.conf '
is used. See
.BR private.conf (5)
for more information about structure of the file.
.RE

.B \-h
.RS 4
Show usage information and exit.
.RE

.B \-v
.RS 4
Show version number and exit.
.RE


.SH LIMITATIONS
At this point, there are some limitations that limit you to some preset values
and available algorithms:

.IP \(bu 4
The repository encoder is not suitable for
.I big
repositories since there is no mechanism for incremental updating.
Even the smallest change requires regeneration of the whole repository.

.IP \(bu 4
The method uses only the AES cipher and no other.


.SH LICENSE AND WARRANTY
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the
Free Software Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apt-transport-private (8),
.BR private.conf (5).
